- When you have a great idea, like how to improve a process,
or maybe a better framework your team can use,
it takes a lot of communication at first
to make that idea a reality.
That's because changing a team's approach
requires some consensus and gaining buy-in from the group.
If advertising your ideas doesn't come natural to you,
at first it can be challenging to get traction
and support for them from your team.
So let's go over a few basics for how to promote your ideas
without it seeming like you're doing
a bunch of self-promotion.
The most important part
of pitching your ideas to team members
is to have a deep understanding of the idea,
including why it's beneficial for your team or product.
Here, you want to keep the idea as specific
and focused as possible, so that its benefits are obvious
and its execution seems feasible.
If it helps, prepare a list of why your idea is so great.
Does it reduce work, cost less?
Or maybe it avoids some big problem in the future.
It also helps to build out some diagrams or visuals
to accompany your idea,
so that it resonates with a larger audience
and it's easier for others
to understand what you're proposing.
Once you have a clear explanation of your idea
and some materials that describe it,
find a team member that you work well with
and informally run it by them.
First, you'll want to explain the approach to them
and educate them on why it's beneficial.
Then go into listening mode
and pay close attention to their feedback.
They might springboard off your original idea
to strengthen it, or point out concerns with the approach.
This feedback is incredibly valuable
for building upon your original idea, strengthening it,
and discovering some benefits you might not have thought of.
If you can incorporate a few of your teammates'
stronger ideas, you'll be more likely to have their support
when you start to share it with the wider group.
If you have good relationships
with several members of your team,
repeat this step with them to build a small coalition
around your idea, and to get a little foresight
into how it will be received.
You'll then want to build a small presentation
about your idea that educates the audience
on the core concepts behind it.
When crafting this presentation,
think about what's important to your team,
especially its leaders,
then frame your message around these points.
This can help build some common ground
that gains support across your team.
Once you've built the materials,
practice your delivery of the presentation
and make sure you can articulate the key points
in a variety of ways.
Maybe through visuals, a quick story,
or a small demonstration that you prototyped.
After you're comfortable with the presentation,
carve out a convenient time
to discuss the information as a group.
Give your audience a bit of advanced notice
on the topic you intend to discuss,
so that nobody in the discussion is blindsided
by your recommendations.
During the discussion, clearly state your points,
and share the information you prepared.
If someone has concerns, don't jump to the defense
of your idea, but work to better understand them,
and see if they can recommend solutions
that address the concerns.
Most ideas don't gain traction
the first time they're introduced.
So be prepared for some follow-up discussions
where you'll need to explain the idea a few more times.
If your team seems on the fence about your idea
and a little reluctant to buy in,
offer to lead a small pilot that tests out the merits of it.
Once you get some forward momentum for your proposal,
you'll want to make the extra effort
to ensure it is successful, because the best selling point
for a new idea is a track record of success.
Before you have that track record,
it'll be harder to get support from your team.
But if there's value in your idea and you can collaborate
with your team to pull it off,
they'll start going to you for recommendations
in the future.